---
title: "From Clustering to Typology: Bridging Quantitative and Qualitative Methods for Conceptual Development"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-clustering-typology
date: 2024-04-01
venue: 'Working Paper'
author: 'Qin Huang'
---

Traditional typological clustering studies in social sciences often rely either on qualitative or computational methods. Qualitative approaches, exemplified by the Varieties of Capitalism framework (Hall and Soskice 2001), typically generalize clustering patterns from case studies, which limit knowledge to a few cases and reduce generalizability beyond them. On the computational front, scholars employ formal clustering analyses of high-dimensional datasets, which frequently lack deep theoretical engagement (e.g., Ahlquist and Breunig 2012). In response, this study bridges these two traditions by introducing novel tools and integrative strategies, aiming to uncover quantitative clustering patterns deeply embedded in theoretical insights and detailed case knowledge. Specifically, this multi-method study integrates unsupervised machine-learning tools with qualitative case studies to identify theoretically meaningful clustering patterns through a three-step approach. The method begins with hierarchical clustering to generate initial case clusters, informing subsequent case selection for in-depth qualitative analysis. Then, a dimensionality-reduction tool, UMAP, is employed to uncover defining cluster features, inter-cluster relationships, and critical temporal divergences, enabling more effective qualitative data collection. Subsequent in-depth case studies facilitate the conceptualization of each cluster, fostering typological outcomes characterized by both generalizable clustering patterns and theoretical significance. By applying this integrated method to provincial political economies in China and Vietnam, the study demonstrates its potential to yield novel concepts, typologies, and historical insights within comparative political economy.
